h1. gs-apns

gs-apns is a gem for accessing the Apple Push Notification Service that allows both sending notifications and reading from apple's feedback service. This gem extends on the prior work of "James Pozdena":http://github.com/jpoz/APNS and "Paul Gebheim":http://github.com/jpoz/APNS.

Improvements in *gs-apns*, by William Denniss of "Geospike":http://geospike.com/ :

# Automatic truncation of messages to fit within the 2048 byte limit, and an exception thrown if the server payload is too big (better than dying silently)
# Truncation can truncate on word or character boundaries, and UTF-8 is fully supported (specifically, Chinese/Japanese character messages are supported)
# JSON generation uses the JSON gem directly rather than to_json which is overridden by Rails with the potential for "bugs to be introduced":http://omegadelta.net/2013/04/28/changes-to-how-rails-3-2-13-and-4-0-encodes-unicode-in-json/ .
# Uses Apple's new 'enhanced' notification protocol allowing for an expiration date to be sent on notifications
# All 2048 of available notification payload can be used (jtv-apns & apns are currently limited to 255)


h2. Install

<pre>
sudo gem install gs-apns
</pre>

h3. Gemfile

<pre>
gem "gs-apns", "~> 1.0.0"
</pre>

Bleeding edge:

<pre>
gem 'gs-apns', :git => 'git://github.com/WilliamDenniss/APNS.git'
</pre>



h2. Setup:

First, you will need to export your development/production iphone push service
certificate and key from your keychain. To do this select the private key and
certificate, and select File -> Export from your keychain. By default a .p12
file will be generated containing certificate and key.

Next, run the following command to convert this .p12 file into a .pem file.

<pre>
openssl pkcs12 -in cert.p12 -out cert.pem -nodes -clcerts
</pre>

This pem file should be stored somewhere secure that your application can access. Next, set the configuration parameters:

<pre>
###################
# Hosts Config
###################

# Push Notification Service:
#
# (default: gateway.sandbox.push.apple.com is)
# Set as below for a production install
APNS.host = 'gateway.push.apple.com' 

# (default: 2195)
# APNS.port = 2195

# Feedback Service:
#
# (default: feedback.sandbox.push.apple.com)
APNS.feedback_host = 'feedback.push.apple.com'

# (default: 2196)
# APNS.feedback_port = 2196

####################
# Certificate Setup
####################

# Path to the .pem file created earlier
APNS.pem  = '/path/to/pem/file'

# Password for decrypting the .pem file, if one was used
APNS.pass = 'xxxx'

####################
# Connection Mgmt
####################

# Cache open connections when sending push notifications
# this will force the gem to keep 1 connection open per
# host/port pair, and reuse it when sending notifications

# (default: false)
# APNS.cache_connections = true

#######################
# Message trunctation
#######################

# soft (word break), or hard truncation (default: Truncate::TRUNCATE_METHOD_SOFT).
APNS.truncate_mode = APNS::Truncate::TRUNCATE_METHOD_SOFT

# for soft truncation, the maximum number of characters that will be chopped (default: 15)
APNS.truncate_soft_max_chopped = 15

# if true (default: false), replaces all whitespace characters in the message with single spaces. 
# e.g. "\n" becomes " ", and "\n\t\n \n" becomes " ".
APNS.message_clean_whitespace = false

# when a message is truncated, this string is written to the end. Defaults to … (the unicode ellipsis)
APNS.truncate_ellipsis_str = "\u2026"

#######################
# Logging
#######################

# if true (default: true), will output 1 log message for every notification in a batch, and 1 message for the batch
APNS.logging = true

</pre>

h2. Example (Single notification):

Then to send a push notification you can either just send a string as the alert or give it a hash for the alert, badge and sound.

<pre>
device_token = '123abc456def'

APNS.send_notification(device_token, 'Hello iPhone!')
APNS.send_notification(device_token, :aps => {:alert => 'Hello iPhone!', :badge => 1, :sound => 'default'})
</pre>

h2. Example (Multiple notifications):

You can also send multiple notifications using the same connection to Apple:

<pre>
device_token = '123abc456def'

n1 = [device_token, :aps => { :alert => 'Hello...', :badge => 1, :sound => 'default' }
n2 = [device_token, :aps => { :alert => '... iPhone!', :badge => 1, :sound => 'default' }]

APNS.send_notifications([n1, n2])
</pre>


h2. Send other info along with aps

Application-specific information can be included along with the alert by
passing it along with the "aps" key in the message hash.

<pre>
APNS.send_notification(device_token, :aps => { :alert => 'Hello iPhone!', :badge => 1, :sound => 'default'},
                                     :sent_by => 'Justin.tv')
</pre>

h2. Pre-establishing connections

If connection caching is enabled, you can tell the gem to establish connections before sending any notifications.

<pre>
APNS.establish_notification_connection
# ...
if APNS.has_notification_connection?
  APNS.send_notification(device_token, "It works!")
end
</pre>

h2. Accessing the feedback service

gs-apns provides a simple api to access Apple's feedback service. Below is an example for setting the feedback time on an ActiveRecord object corresponding to a device token.

<pre>
# APNS.feedback_each returns an array of Hash objects with the following keys
# :feedback_on => (Time) Time Apple considers app unregistered from device
# :length => (Fixnum) Length of :device_token, currently always 32 (bytes)
# :device_token => (String) hex-encoded device token
APNS.feedback.each do |feedback|
  d = RegisteredDevices.find(:first, :conditions => { :device_token = feedback.device_token })
  unless d.nil?
    d.feedback_on = feedback.feedback_on
  end
end
</pre>

h2. Getting your iPhone's device token

After you setup push notification for your application with Apple. You need to ask Apple for you application specific device token.

ApplicationAppDelegate.m
<pre>
- (void)applicationDidFinishLaunching:(UIApplication *)application {    
    // Register with apple that this app will use push notification
    [[UIApplication sharedApplication] registerForRemoteNotificationTypes:(UIRemoteNotificationTypeAlert | 
      UIRemoteNotificationTypeSound | UIRemoteNotificationTypeBadge)];                                     
}

- (void)application:(UIApplication *)application didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken:(NSData *)deviceToken {
    // Show the device token obtained from apple to the log
    NSLog(@"deviceToken: %@", deviceToken);
}
</pre>
    
h2. Test Cases

Execute:

<pre>
bundle exec rspec spec
</pre>

To run all the rspec test-cases.
